# Version v1.5.0 upgrade guide

## Installing cosmovisor

The mainnet validator nodes are supposed to use cosmovisor app - supervising program for cosmos chains. This provides automated upgrades functionality. It also makes the upgrades itself almost transaprent for the chain users and protects chain against using different binaries in paralell - which can be very harmful for the chain itself.

Detailed instruction of installing, initialising of cosmovisor is delivered by ChainTools organisation: [Cosmovisor Installation](https://docs.chaintools.tech/home/guides/installation-guides/install-cosmovisor)

All following instructions assume that cosmovisor is installed.

## Skipping further instructions

Using cosmovisor You can skip all further instructions. Cosmovisor can download and deploy new binary for You. The only thing You have to do is to enable binary download in the settings:

    Environment="DAEMON_ALLOW_DOWNLOAD_BINARIES=true"

**But You have to know that this is not recommended. However some of the chains use this approach (Carbon chain as example). It can cause harm if the upgrade proposal will point to something else than the real chain binary.**

## Go version

You have to have go installed. Please be careful - **You should use Go version 1.19.xx**

**Do not try to build it with previous versions or use currently available 1.20.xx It can cause the problems on the chain.**

## Prepare version folder for cosmovisor

Navigate to main cosmovisor folder (in Lumenx default location is $HOME/.lumenx)

    cd $HOME/.lumenx/cosmovisor

Check if You already have upgrades folder there, if not create it and enter it

    mkdir upgrades
    cd upgrades

Create new version folder structure

    mkdir v1.5.0
    cd v1.5.0
    mkdir bin

Final structure of the destination directory should be like

    $HOME/.lumenx/cosmovisor/upgrades/v1.5.0/bin

## Build the application binary

It is going to be easier to clone the new repo on Your disk

    git clone https://github.com/cryptonetD/lumenx.git

Checkout v1.5.0 version

    git checkout v1.5.0

Build the version

    make install

The destination folder of Your binary depends on Your system settings. Sometimes it is /opt/<go-version>/bin or local subfolder of the user You are operating $HOME/go/bin

The name of the build binary is: *lumenxd*

## Easy path to get binary

If You do not want to build binary locally or have some problems with that - You can just download it on Your linux system from [here](https://github.com/cryptonetD/lumenx/releases/download/v1.5.0/lumenxd)

## Copy the binary to cosmovisor folder

Last thing to be done is copying the binary - either downloaded or built - to the destination folder.

    $HOME/.lumenx/cosmovisor/upgrades/v1.5.0/bin

Copy instruction should be as:

    cp <Your source folder>/lumenxd $HOME/.lumenx/cosmovisor/upgrades/v1.5.0/bin/.

## You are finished

If You are using cosmovisor this is all You need. All the rest is going to be done by this app.